Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to cover some opportunities to get portfolio items done quickly.
Now this is an option to go over.
That's essentially you do it for free.
Now a lot of people know that at very beginning your portfolio is of the utmost concern and it's even
so important that you might want to do a couple of small projects for free but they don't know where
to start.
So in this lecture we're going to cover some opportunities and places to look for projects that can
be taken over projects that can be made and then projects that can be ultimately included in your portfolio
and how to go about doing that.
So let's go to screencast.
Later on we're going to talk about tagging and one of the strategies of finding people who need free
work in exchange for tagging and that's a marketing strategy.
But as a strategy for building your portfolio.
A lot of times you kind of have this chicken and egg problem right.
It's very hard to build your portfolio with your portfolio.
Why would someone trust you if you have nothing in your portfolio to show them.
So at first it seems it might be out of your reach to even charge money.
So one thing you can do and this has worked very successfully for us and other development firms in
the past is that you can offer your services for free for pre-set amount of time in exchange for using
whatever you build or whatever project you're a part of as a portfolio item.
Now if you listened to the previous lectures we talked about how anything you work on can go in your
portfolio.
So.
So this is a great example of a site that you can do this on.
There are other ones out there.
This is probably the largest one.
And you'll notice a lot of web development firms that are aspiring or freelance professionals that are
aspiring will use this Web site to get essentially free portfolio items and also to give back.
That's something that you're interested in doing.
OK.
So the way that this Web site works is this in exchange nonprofits and I believe social enterprises
which is just another way of saying a for profit that has a social mission.
They post small projects that they can't afford to have done or it's inconvenient for them to pay for
and they look for professionals who are willing to donate their time.
So organizations join they list out what they're doing then they'll list things they need and professionals
can go through and pick some things and send them a message.
And that's pretty it's pretty simple it's just a basic marketplace for people who need stuff done and
professionals willing to donate their time.
And so the way that you would find a project is very very simple.
You only have to pick out two of these things right here.
Let's just start with what are you good at.
So what are you good at.
You're going to be good at web development.
If you're someone who's previously a freelancer in design and you're coming out this as a way to grow
your design freelance business then you can pick that.
And if that's what you're more comfortable with you want to use Design go for it.
In this case we're just going to talk about web development.
What do you care about now.
This is really up to you if there's something that you're specifically more passionate about.
You can definitely pick something.
It really does it for our purposes it doesn't necessarily matter because we're just looking for somewhere
to point our free effort towards So it makes sense to send it towards a nonprofit that's trying to benefit
society.
But past that it's really up to your personal preference.
You could be really callous and say Oh I'm only going to go for the one that has the most visibility
I'm going to pick something that looks the best in my portfolio then.
Yeah and honestly in that case then maybe you might want to look at this more from a business say if
you are someone who focuses on startups and educational apps startups and if you want to go for education
if you're something that's worried more about you know if you have a specific niche maybe you ought
to find something in that specific niche.
If you don't go for visibility maybe you do things around government or international affairs or something
that has high visibility blogs or high visibility things so this whole thing is completely up to you.
I suggest going for something you're passionate about.
And then once you're actually into the list you can decide if it's whether or not you know a project
is too small for your purposes.
That's really up to you.
OK so right off the bat we have 52 projects and this is just kind of immediately what's available if
you keep searching every other week you'll notice that more and more add on.
This is something that we do occasionally only have lead time not because we need a portfolio because
our portfolios fall but it is something that it's nice to point your extra effort towards because a
lot of these people just need really small stuff done.
And it's not particularly difficult.
So some of these are get bigger and some of them are quite a bit smaller.
So right at the top it says what they need.
And then below that it says how many hours you just need to kind of calculate in your head what you
think it's worth it whether or not you have the bandwidth to give up a big project or whether or not
you're really looking for something to put five 10 hours in and get out.
Like for instance this is something that would be you know they say 35 to 48 hour 45 hours.
But if it's just WordPress website construction then it might not be the case you spend that much time.
You also might be a little concerned about the turnaround time.
And if that's the case maybe you want to look at the timeline over here so maybe you want something
that's shorter.
So there's a lot of different things here that you can put yourself into.
You know it's really this is something this strategy that's completely up to you if you decide to take
over someone's web site redesign or to develop some widget or app that helps someone nonprofit do something
that it's kind of entirely up to you to make it look good make it function well so that you can put
it in your portfolio.
Keep in mind what you're going for in your portfolio.
Keep in mind basic tenants we talked about before about portfolio consistency and then just try to keep
in mind how many hours you want to put into this.
And when you need your portfolio item done it is something that you can dedicate you know three months
to then go for it if it's something that you're more interested in getting something smaller done quicker
then look for something that's only a couple weeks.
You can also do this just manually.
You can always look for nonprofits in your area.
Nonprofits you're specifically passionate about and contact them.
This just saves you a lot of time because it's already people who are looking for something.
There's a lot of things out here that seem pretty nifty and pretty cool.
You can really fill your entire portfolio with nonprofit things that are all over the world in various
different sectors.
Obviously in that case be careful because you don't want your entire portfolio to look like you only
work with nonprofits unless obviously that's your strategy but it's not really something you can go
wrong with.
So be conscientious about how much time you have to give.
Be aware of what exactly you need out of it and it's definitely something that can help you and help
someone out there as well.
So see you guys in the next lecture.